.TH "QP" "1" "August 2020" "QP 2.0" "Command Line Media Player"
.nh
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
qp \- Command Line Media Player
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B "qp [-a] [-g range] [-i] [-l] [-p] [-t track]"
file
.br
.B "qp -T"
files...
.br
.B "qp -v"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This program plays media files from the command line.
.PP
The
.B "-i"
option invokes interactive mode, which turns this program into a GUI
application, providing a very light-weight method of playing media files.
In this mode, a window with a movie controller is presented, allowing
complete interactive control of the playback.
.PP
If interactive mode is not requested, the file is played sequentially with
minimal user interaction.  The program begins to play immediately on
startup, and terminates automatically when playing finishes.  The user can
terminate the program early (for example, by keyboard interrupt with
Control-C).  In this mode, if only audio is being played, no visual
indication of any kind is given.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B "-a"
Include only audio tracks for playback.  All other tracks are excluded.
.TP
.B "-g range"
Play a segment of the file, instead of the entire file.  This option can be
given multiple times, resulting in a concatenation of all ranges specified,
in the order that they are given.
.IP
A range specification has the form:
.IP
   hh:mm:ss[.fff]-hh:mm:ss[.fff][xn]
.IP
The two time values specify the start and end of the segment.  The optional
".fff" specifies milliseconds, allowing very precise segment selection.
.IP
The optional "xn" trailer is only significant in non-interactive mode
(i.e., when -i is not given).  The x is a literal lower-case 'x', and n is
a number greater than or equal to 0.  This causes the segment to be played
repeatedly and without pause for n times.  If this trailer is not
specified, the segment is played once.
.IP
If n is explicitly set to 0, the segment is repeated "forever," until the
program is manually terminated by the user.  Any subsequent segments will
not be played.
.TP
.B "-i"
Request interactive mode.  A window with a movie controller is displayed.
When this window is closed, the program exits.
.TP
.B "-l"
Turn on looping.  When playback reaches the end, resume playing from the
beginning.
.TP
.B "-p"
Begin playing immediately on startup, in cases where this is not the
default behavior.  Specifically, this causes playing to begin on startup in
interactive mode (-i).
.TP
.B "-t"
Include a specific track by track ID.  This option can be given multiple
times.  Tracks specified will be included for playback, and all other
tracks are excluded.
.IP
Use the "-T" option below to identify track IDs.
.TP
.B "-T"
For each file given, if it is a media file, print the tracks it contains.
The program exits after performing this operation.  All playback options
are ignored, and no file is played.
.TP
.B "-v"
Print program version and exit.  All other options are ignored.
.SH "MULTIMEDIA CONTROL KEYS"
The program provides basic support for multimedia control keys on the
keyboard.
.TP 2
.B "play/pause"
Play if currently paused, or pause if currently playing.
.TP
.B "rewind"
Move to the beginning of the file or range.
.TP
.B "fast forward"
Move to the end of the file or range.  In non-interactive mode, if this
causes the end of playback to be reached, the program will immediately
exit.  This is useful for skipping the current file when using the "qpl"
shell script.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
To play an audio file non-interactively:
.IP
qp song.mp3
.PP
To play only the audio track(s) of a file:
.IP
qp -a movie.mp4
.PP
To play the first 5 seconds of a file:
.IP
qp -g 00:00:00-00:00:05 song.mp3
.PP
To play the first 5 seconds of a file repeatedly (until manually
terminated):
.IP
qp -g 00:00:00-00:00:05x0 song.mp3
.PP
To play the first 5.333 seconds of a file repeatedly for 5 times:
.IP
qp -g 00:00:00-00:00:05.333x5 song.mp3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
A shell script named "qpl" is distributed with this program.  It can be
used to play multiple files, loops, and user-defined play lists.  Detailed
instructions are provided as comments in the script.
